[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hi everyone. This is Doctor Christine Liebert of Johns Hopkins. Welcome to module two.

This is human computation and authentic AI.

Uh, our module ten will go a little bit more in depth with a genetic AI, but this is going to be a preview of what is to come on that front.

Today we'll be asking what makes human effort a computational operation rather than simply human participation?

Effectively, people can be deliberate components of a computational system.

We will be distinguishing human computation from just regular tech use, crowdsourcing, and collaboration.

We're also going to examine why designers still rely on human perception, judgment, and context, even as machine capabilities improve.

Let's begin. For an overview, human computation is considered how humans became deliberate components of the computational systems.

Um. We're not talking about humans as just, um, users of the system.

They are embedded within the system as part of it.

The ideal human computation problem sits at this intersection of both human accessibility as humans can actually get done, and machine difficulty.

Our important point here is that the resource assignment that we give to the machine,

and that we give to the human, um, we need to delegate that to their comparative strengths.

It's a very strong system that you can build. It doesn't assume that people or automation should be doing everything.

It begins by figuring out the properties of all the tasks that you're breaking down,

and deciding which resource resource would be most reliable for that task.

So for machines, we're talking about fast, scalable, but difficulties with more ambiguous assignments and crowds have rich judgments.

But they're slow.

They're going to cost you a lot of money, and they have variability, which we'll talk about more later as being both a pro and a con.

And we have that sweet spot here of human and machines together.

So humans and computers fail in different ways.

And coordinating our human contributors reliably is going to require very explicit architectural choices at every stage in our development.

While people are good at handling things like ambiguity, um, differences in culture,

perception, creative judgment, computers excel more on things like speed,

precision, memory and storage, And human computation uses this more complementary, rather than treating humans and machines as competitors.

Um, our opportunity when we're designing these systems is to assign each step to the resource that is best suited to do it,

and create hand offs that preserve the context and quality, which is something that you'll be noticing a bit in our assignment for this module.

Now there are three elements that make that define human computation and give it that precision.

Human effort has to be intentional, meaning that the system was designed to request it.

Um, it's productive so that, um, the response becomes a useful and structured output that the machine can read.

And finally, it's embedded, meaning that the human step is part of the algorithmic pipeline rather than residing with the outside of it.

And if removing the human step changes the computation, we're looking at more than a genuine human computation system.

I'm feeling bad about how much text around some of these slides,

but hopefully you can bear with me, because human computation has a lot of related fields.

And you might be asking, okay, well, there are courses on crowdsourcing and human computer interaction,

human computer interaction or collective intelligence.

And I want to try to distinguish here how human computation is different but still related to those fields.

So HCI focuses more on the interface of what you're interacting with as the human.

Crowdsourcing is more focused on sourcing contributing, contributing Contributions at scale and for collective intelligence,

that's more focusing on emergent group capability, which is also something we're going to be covering in this module.

So human computation has elements of those, but it's focusing specifically on people executing those design steps in an algorithm.

If you take something like Wikipedia for example, you can look at it through the lens of all four of these fields.

Um, but the research question that you have about Wikipedia is going to be what determines the label that you put on it as,

oh, this is a human computation problem, or, oh, this is a crowdsourcing problem.

And this field emerged in early on in the millennia, um,

as researchers discovered that everyday human activity could be channeled into structured computational work.

What I want to start by talking about is in 2001, the ESP game by Louis Van on,

and he's going to be a common name that we're talking about in this module.

Uh, because he I wouldn't say he like fully invented this field, but a lot of the major milestones and use cases came from his research and work.

So he, um, created this game, the ESP game that was basically image labeling as a game.

So gamify ING it. And then he got to thinking a little bit more.

He's this professor at Carnegie Mellon, and he decided to create Captcha two years later,

which is how humans verify that they're humans on the internet if you're trying to get through something.

A couple years later, he realized, okay, we might need to up the game a little bit.

He made reCAPTCHA, which is a combination of verification and ebook digitization.

Uh, and then in 2008, we have the emergence of Foldit, which I don't believe was Louis won on,

but that was an example of another collaborative game that led to more research in the bio domain and Galaxy Zoo,

which is a citizen science image classification problem, which we'll talk about a little bit more to get back to Louis Von on.

He is also, if you've heard the name before, um, the person who came up with Duolingo.

So he has taken the idea of human computation and really harnessed it into some amazing products that we're going to be analyzing a bit.

And that first one from 2001 that he made was called the ESP game.

And here's a screenshot I was able to get of an older version of it, to give you an idea.

It looks very 2001 like Neopets in its HCI design.

Um, and it showed that we can change the the way that we look at games and entertainment and actually be getting stuff done through it.

But and it was producing labeled training data and it was effectively free.

The things that Lewis harnessed to get this done was the motivation alignment because players wanted to win.

They wanted to find the labels. Um, so it was there was some motivation to get it done, the agreement as validation.

So if multiple people will have the same response, matching is pretty cheap,

and the hidden computation is that the players were unaware that they were actually creating a machine learning system.

And I mean, this is 2001. So the idea of, oh, they're using my data that wasn't really in the lexicon of what was happening in culture.

So, um, this was really one of the revolutionary, um, elements of human computation.

And then again with Lewis. I sound like such a Lewis fan on Fan Girl here, but in the context of this lecture, he's the key figure.

And he. Invented capture and recapture.

Here are some examples of what that looks like.

Where in order to verify that you're a human on the internet, they give you this kind of task to solve.

And what's interesting about it is that it was actually a method to them digitize scanned books from the library where you would see,

like, either a word or a sentence that was handwritten, and you have to decode what it means.

And those were actually words that researchers needed to digitize to make sure that the, um,

the books that they were trying to take from print version to digital could become digital.

But what it showed is that a routine human activity can be engineered to produce multiple useful outputs, um, that are Helpful for society.

Okay, I'm feeling a little bad about all the text and screenshots here,

but here are two more examples of human computation that was utilized in a way,

um, leveraging the human component to have breakthroughs in scientific discovery.

The first is in 2008 with this, uh, Foldit structure.

And I think it's still used today.

And players manipulate these 3D protein structures using different spatial dimensions, and they're trying to compete against each other.

See who can get it. Um, most optimized. I am not, um, the best at bio proteins are this folding.

So this is not a game that would appeal to me, but I could see, um, the kind of person who would be intrigued by it.

Uh, like I said, it led to breakthroughs in research that wouldn't have happened if they didn't have humans contributing at this scale.

Galaxy zoo Similar story the next year, involved in volunteers classifying all these images of galaxies from the telescope.

And in just the first year, they had over 500 or over 50 million classifications were made.

So that is automating out through human computation the work that a researcher would not want to dedicate centuries doing,

but having the humans embedded within the system to be able to do it was very useful.

So a good candidate for human computation is that if you have a task that is decomposable, agreeable, and verifiable.

So if the task can't be divided into small, smaller tasks, I wouldn't recommend this type of system because it won't be able to scale.

Um, and if the outputs from the humans and the computers can't be combined, then you're not going to get one Reliable solution.

And if the quality can't be checked, that the system, the system then may generate a lot of confidence,

but it won't have that reliability embedded within it. So I would not say that all tasks are suitable for human computation.

We're looking at something that sits at the intersection of human accessibility and machine difficulty.

All right. Now let's make an engineering model out of human computation.

We define the problem. Break it into tasks. Root those tasks.

Aggregate the responses and validate the result. And each of these stages can introduce an error or a bias.

Um, for example, if you have great aggregation, that's not going to fix the fact that you had an ambiguous task.

So we need to make sure that when we're designing them, we are. Adding reliability in a deliberate way across the entire pipeline.

And coordinating all of these human contributors, it's going to require very explicit architectural choices at all of these stages.

Looking at where humans can be involved. Humans have pros and cons.

They're flexible. They can take in novel context.

They are creative, but they're also very biased, costly and variable, which we'll discuss in a later module how this could be a pro and con.

But those limitations are not reasons to avoid human computations, but they're just requirements that the architecture needs to overcome and address.

So we will be talking in this lecture about in this module about more modern human computation applications.

Some of the examples here I've broken down into things like citizen science,

where you have volunteers that are making really great improvements for research grade data sets.

We have content moderation. You posting this on things like community notes on social media, crisis mapping.

That's when you have volunteers map out disaster zones as a disaster is unfolding.

And that can be done because you have a lot more local context of like, oh, this stream runs through my backyard.

And then accessibility. Um, the example I put here was a human generated alt text and audio descriptions make more inclusive AI systems.

I'd also argue I think there's another app, the Be My Eyes app, where people who have visual impairments can.

Use human computation to take pictures of things, upload them, and have someone who has stronger vision can say,

oh well, this is an apple, or this is this brand of pop tart.

We have four interlocking principles that determine whether a system is going to make, um, reliable results at scale.

We have task design, so that's making sure we have these tasks that can be broken down scoped.

And they're feasible for both what is being asked of the machine and of the human that there is some sort of incentive structure.

And sometimes that's financial, like you're getting paid,

or maybe there's a leaderboard when you're gamified something, or it could be social or intrinsic aggregation.

And this can be done in different ways. Again, we'll go into this later, but we have options like majority voting,

a weighted consensus or expectation, expectation maximization, and finally quality control.

How can we make sure that we are getting good contributors, um, and having some sort of outlier detection?

Okay. Our key takeaways here are that humans can actually, uh, be part of computation.

And but they have to be strategically embedded in a pipeline design is going to

determine how reliable your system system is by pulling different engineering levels,

levers. Those levers are task decomposition incentives, aggregation, and quality control.

Finally, complementary is the core insight. And this is going to be a theme throughout this whole semester where let's consider

hybrid systems that can exploit the strengths of both humans and of machines.

So the next few lectures in this module are going to focus on comparing the architecture of human computation,

collective intelligence, some real world examples,

and how we can use best design practices when we're making our own human computation systems, which is your assignment for this module.

So thank you again. This is Doctor Christine Liebert and I hope you enjoyed this lecture.

