[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hi, everyone. Welcome back. This is Doctor Christine Leppard and this lecture.

We're going to be moving away from defining human computation and more towards engineering it.

Our central idea is that a crowd does not automatically produce reliable computation.

Reliable reliability emerges from the workflow that structures participation, checks quality, and combines results.

So we're going to move through a few more examples and focus on the architecture rather than the platform name.

And by the end, you'll be able to recognize common workflow patterns and explain the trade offs that each pattern can create.

Let's begin. In our last lecture, we defined human computation as intentionally embedding people inside of an algorithmic process.

And now what we need to do is ask how those human contributions can be organized into a functioning system.

Recruiting a large number of people is necessary for some systems, but it's not going to be sufficient in and of itself.

On top here, we have a naive pipeline that's setting a problem to people and just hoping that they get a useful response back,

and these are going to make unreliable results. The bottom pipeline here, the engineered one,

actually inserts architecture between the problem and the participants, and it treats humans as nodes in a design.

Computational graph architecture is the engineering intervention that transforms crowd participation into reliable computation.

Human computation resembles distributed computing in a way in that many nodes can process, work in parallel, and contribute to a combined result.

The difference is that computer processors are more homogenous and predictable, whereas people have a lot of variability.

Human latency changes with availability and human error rates change with how much expertise they have,

how much fatigue they have, what their incentives are, and how clear the instructions were due to that variability.

That means that we need a bit more redundancy, routing and quality control when working with humans.

So the distributed system analogy gives us a useful vocabulary, but the human characteristics of the nodes are still central.

Most human computation systems can be understood through three core operations.

First, you have to decompose a large task into small units that a person can reasonably complete.

Second, we need to coordinate or route those tasks, um, to the appropriate contributors.

And third, we need to aggregate the responses into a reliable output Every single human

computation system from Galaxy Zoo and Mechanical Turk and all the way to Wikipedia.

It follows this pipeline regardless of what domain it's in.

Our engineering challenge is figuring out how to optimize each stage for the target performance criteria.

So let's go through a bunch of examples of these types of architectures.

I'm going to spell out the pros and cons and then we'll put them all together.

Our first is independent parallel work. It's the simplest high scale architecture.

It's where you divide work into tasks that have no meaningful dependencies.

And then you're going to send each task to a different contributor.

An example of this would be like capture interpretation, um,

the galaxy classification that I mentioned in the last module and large annotation pipelines.

The advantage here is that it's fast and there's a very low coordination cost,

since these workers aren't communicating with each other and having to agree on things.

But that's also the weakness is that a single response can be wrong.

So the design when you're building a design like this,

you have to decide whether just having one independent response is adequate or whether you're going to need some sort of redundancy.

One tasks share no dependencies.

These systems scale linearly with the size of the workforce, and this is kind of like a human equivalent of MapReduce.

Maybe I shouldn't be comparing humans to computers in such a extreme way each time, but basically throughput is what's going to be really high here.

But accuracy is more task dependent. And we don't have to worry though, about the inter work coordination.

If we wanted to, we'd pivot to redundant parallelism.

So when you're assigning the same tasks to multiple people, instead of just having one person do it for this,

you can have agreement that would indicate that the majority vote is correct.

But there's also other things you can do to figure out, like weighing contributors based off their expertise.

Having this redundancy is generally going to improve your accuracy, but it's going to cost you a little bit more.

So you have to think of these trade offs. So how much confidence does this application require and how much money do you have to fund it?

When I use platforms like Mechanical Turk,

usually I'll have 3 or 5 workers on a given task and just take a majority value or the majority vote of the value that I accept.

Hierarchical workflows match different levels of work to different levels of expertise.

So you have a very large pool of humans handling routine cases.

Then reviewers are going to take just the more uncertain ones, and you're going to see have experts be given very hard or highest risk items.

We see this in example like Wikipedia and medical annotation using some sort of tiered structure.

And the key design is figuring out what your escalation criteria should be.

So when do you need to escalate this task from like a low level step to okay, we're going to need an expert here.

Iterative refinement is that when we're asking contributors to improve on something that we already have, instead of creating something new.

Examples for this would be Wikipedia articles, Google docs, um,

open source code And what you find is kind of a sequence of edits to get to the final product.

Uh, it's important that the design preserves some sort of trace to see the version history, so that you can roll back any mistakes that are within it.

And the benefit here is that you have a cumulative improvement.

But on the risky side is that later contributors can still reinforce an earlier error.

Um, I think like when you're pushing changes to git, if you're on a branch and something happens,

you need to make sure you have those recovery mechanisms so you can revert.

Divide and conquer. This is where you partition a large problem into a bunch of subproblems.

Um, which that first step probably sounds familiar, but then you're solving them independently and merging their outputs partially.

So examples for this. So think of disaster mapping. If you have a bunch of geographic tiles covering different Um, longitude and latitude.

All coordinates or document transcription.

Um, where you're saying, okay, you take this page, you take this page, you're working on parallel work, but it's more.

Scalable in this approach. Um, but it's very important that you have figured out what your merge step is.

Competitive systems. This is where you're broadcasting the same problem to a bunch of different problem solvers and figuring out,

um, what the best scoring response is and using that.

So competition is something where people have this extrinsic motivation to be the best,

and they feel this natural pressure towards I need to produce the best.

So we see this in examples like Foldit and Kaggle.

Um, the architecture requires very little coordination among participants because the scoring function is what is doing the selecting.

But an important caveat here is that when you're designing a system that's using competition like this, it needs to.

You need to be careful what you're making as your scoring function,

because it needs to reflect the quality of the solution, because that's what workers are going to be optimizing for.

They might not be familiar with the specific problem you're trying to solve. They're just trying to say, well, how can I get this number higher?

And finally, we have collaborative networks.

These are what allow contributors to communicate, coordinate and build a shared result without one central controller saying every single step.

Examples here are um, Wikipedia has talk pages and we have things like open source pull requests,

community notes that all of these rely on a networked interaction of multiple people.

They can combine distributed expertise and produce insights unavailable to any single person.

It also introduces coordination costs and the possibility of groupthink.

So the topology of the network based on who can see and influence who becomes part of the system architecture.

And that's also important when we're working on designing them. So putting them all together.

What I'm trying to do here is show that there is no architecture that is going to win out on every single dimension.

We have independent parallel work, which is scalable and fast, but not as accurate.

Um, the redundancy is going to improve your confidence at an additional cost.

Uh, hierarchies are having higher accuracy with greater latency.

Collaborative and also iterative systems have more of a complex synthesis and require more coordination.

Um, so what I'm really trying to convey is that selecting your architecture, it's optimizing on multiple different elements.

You're trying to consider the quality of the result, the cost, the speed, the expertise and the risk.

Every design decision that you make when you're picking an architecture is a trade off,

and the correct architecture is determined by the application's performance requirements.

Going back to the example of Foldit, where your protein folding.

Um, it's useful because it combines a number of different architectures instead of just relying on one.

So you see the competition where people, the humans involved in it are trying to compete through their rankings,

but they're also collaborating by sharing their strategies.

And we're seeing this iterative iteration of iteratively improving the structures across their sessions.

The system then selects promising solutions for scientific evaluation.

So yes, it's good that there are people who are very enthusiastic about the mission for Foldit.

Um, but its success can be attributed also to the architecture, the arranging,

the spatial intuition, the motivation, the interaction and the workflow. Um, that is what is kind of the secret sauce of Foldit.

It's very architecturally sophisticated to give you an idea of how successful it's been.

Back in 2011, um, Foldit players actually solved a protein folding problem in I believe it was ten days.

And computational methods had been struggling with this problem for 15 years.

So. Those are some massive gains.

And as I said, all these different architectures have trade offs. Um, you have redundancy raising quality but increasing costs pretty much linearly.

Hierarchical review conserves expert attention, but can create a really narrow bottleneck.

You don't know like when to escalate. Uh, using things like parallelism is going to improve your speed, but it makes consistency a little bit harder.

And the design that you need to pick for your, um, the architecture that you need to pick for your design,

it really depends on what the consequences of having an error are.

So don't just say what is the best architecture in general,

you need to figure out what failure modes are acceptable to the application that you are using for your assignment.

Um, production systems much like Foldit usually combine multiple architectural patterns and community notes.

Like you'll see on I believe they call it X.

Now that's a mixture of collaborative contribution with both competitive or like a bridge based scoring system.

OpenStreetMap uses divide and conquer with iterative revisions.

Wikipedia has the iterative refinement, um, plus hierarchical review.

And then we have Galaxy Zoo, which uses both um redundant parallelism and majority voted morphological morphology labeled at scale.

Recognizing that these composited composites are used together is important, um,

because it's very rare for a system to fit so neatly into a little box with just one architectural system.

All right. Our key takeaways. Um architecture determines performance.

Um, scale, quality and cost and latency are all properties of the workflow.

Um, not just of the workforce. If we are thinking of people as distributed processors, we can then decide that they are providing um.

Many options in terms of the design.

As long as you remember that all of these humans that we are using as nodes in our graph are socially influenced and still fallible.

In our next lecture, we're going to talk about the theoretical foundations of collective intelligence.

So these are the conditions under which crowds are smarter than experts and also when they fail catastrophically.

Thank you for watching this lecture today. I hope you enjoyed it and I will see you in the next one.

Again, this is Doctor Christine Liebert. Take care.

