[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hi, everyone. This is Doctor Christine Liebert of Johns Hopkins. Welcome back.

Uh, today in our lecture, we're going to be answering a question. And that is kind of a interesting one in my opinion.

Um, the question is, why do well-organized groups consistently outperform highly capable individuals.

And we call this collective intelligence, and it emerges only under conditions that really preserve the useful differences

that each contributor has and combines their information most effectively.

So today we're going to walk through some of the wisdom and failure modes of crowds,

and then we'll get to how we can design appropriate systems for collective intelligence.

Let's begin. Sorry about that.

Collective intelligence is the ability of groups to perform cognitive tasks in a way that exceed what any individual could accomplish alone,

and this is something that is studied by Thomas Malone.

He is a professor at MIT, and this is kind of recent.

This was 2006. Um, he has his center for Collective Intelligence, and he's known for his his research on how groups and computers collaborate.

He likes to call the concept super minds.

Um, and his most influential work, arguably, is the mapping of the genome of collective intelligence to harness crowds,

where he would ask two pairs of questions for these designs one who is performing the task and why are they doing it,

and to what is being accomplished, and how is that being done?

So when we're talking about collective intelligence, we're not talking about just collaboration.

We're talking about an actual synergy of the group being greater than the individual.

And this is not just. These people work together.

We can solve real world problems by individual experts or from the crowd.

Crowds, I'm not arguing, are inherently better than experts.

There's a time and a place to have them. But, um, crowd's advantages come from having being able to combine multiple independent judgments.

But if we can't effectively aggregate all of their judgments, it's just a list of opinions.

If we can aggregate it effectively, this crowd becomes a computational resource that's capable of producing highly accurate estimates.

So here's an example of that. I don't know if you're familiar with Francis Galton's famous ox weight experiment.

He had just under 800 individuals at the fair. Guess the weight of an ox.

And even though there was a lot of variation in these individual guesses, the average estimate was incredibly accurate.

This was because these were all independent estimation errors, and they would cancel each other out,

so the aggregate estimate would then converge on the right answer.

But this is highly dependent upon all of these estimates having statistical independence.

Um. The result is not saying that every single crowd is wise.

It just means that independence and a suitable aggregation rule can take noisy

judgments that we're getting and turn them into an actually accurate estimation.

For those of you who are familiar with the Wisdom of crowds by James Swarovski, um, he has these four conditions.

For collective intelligence. One, it's diversity ensuring that contributors possess different information and perspectives and heuristics.

Second, independence. This prevents contributors from just copying what somebody else is doing.

Decentralization. This is talking about, um, letting individuals apply their own knowledge.

And finally the fourth is aggregation, which is what you'll hear me talk about a lot throughout this, uh, this lecture.

Um, it's combining all of these individual contributions into a very meaningful collective result.

And if you remove any single one of these conditions, you are going to degrade the collective intelligence performance.

Crowds can also become less intelligent if crowd contributors lose their independence.

Think of groupthink, where you see social pressure that's going to force you to change your opinion based off of what everyone around you is doing.

Then you have information cascades where individuals ignore their own evidence because

of earlier contributors were influencing their perceived consensus and herd behavior.

You can kind of see this in like financial bubbles or online misinformation spaces, or like TikTok trends.

Once people copy one another, it starts becoming correlated and aggregation can actually amplify all of those errors instead of canceling them out.

It just feels like a lecture where I recommend, um, business books written by men.

But, uh, another example is Scott Paige's book called The Difference.

And he did research showing that diverse groups of semi-skilled individuals can outperform homogenous groups of experts if the problem is complex,

because those experts who have really homogenous, um, thinking have the same assumptions, they have the same blind spots and views of limitations.

By having more diversity in who's contributing, you're including new heuristics and assumptions,

and you're complimenting the expertise as opposed to just merely replacing it.

Um. Another theme throughout this course is that our strongest system is one that is going to be a hybrid.

In this case, I'm talking about combining expertise with some sort of cognitive and informational diversity.

Aggregation is that computational step that is transforming what human inputs we collect and making them into a single system output.

But we have to be careful in choosing which one we want to use.

So you can take the simple majority vote, which I usually do for Mechanical Turk.

Just assuming everyone has equal judgments, you can use a weighted vote where you're incorporating more of a reliability of the individual saying,

oh, I think this person is more likely to be right than the others. Using consensus is going to support a deliberation prediction markets.

They use incentives and prices. Um, to kind of summarize a belief that's like the Caci, um, predicting.

Uh, by putting bets on on these.

And I just read a paper, and I wanted to kind of, like, do a deeper review into it, saying that it's actually using prediction markets to have,

um, predictions based of like what the weather will be gets higher accuracy from non meteorologists type people than the meteorologists.

Um, uh prediction. So it's important that you have to choose an aggregation algorithm because that is an engineering decision.

And it's going to affect the accuracy and how robust it is. Uh communication is something that can also affect your network.

Um, sorry. Communication structure can also affect the collective intelligence.

You have centralized systems where information is going to flow through a hub.

But, um, it can also get stuck in a bottleneck.

You have Decentralized systems that allow independent contributions than the fully connected ones.

Where you're going to get rapid information sharing. But then you might also have that downside of the groupthink that we were just talking about.

Um, so decentralized structures are going to preserve the diversity and independence a little bit more.

Okay. I want to go into some case studies. This is going to be a little bit more the focus of the next lecture.

We have Wikipedia where you'll see interactions between contributors, editors, um, any sort of policies that are published and the revision history.

It also has many independent improvements that accumulate over time into a very highly accurate knowledge base.

Um, but all of these elements, the editors, the policies, the contributors,

they have to work together to make something that is then more accurate than

not one single author would make if they were like the expert on the topic.

Another example are community notes. You see these on X, I believe on blue sky.

They're not just published because people can all agree. Um, the community note that gets picked by the platform is.

Favored because it finds agreement among differing perspective.

And on social media, the platform will have you labeled as leaning in one political direction or the other.

And if they see a consensus forming across multiple groups, that's when they will publish the community.

Note. We still have to measure collective intelligence empirically,

just like any other computational system we have standard metrics like accuracy, which is usually our go to of how correct it is.

But we also need to consider the coverage.

How much of this problem space are we actually able to reach through our group of people who are working on this reliability,

meaning how consistent we are across our annotator populations?

Um, and then our throughput of how fast can we get things done and at what cost.

And just like everything else we've discussed, you can have very great accuracy and not great results on the other metrics.

So it's not linear and they don't all correspond to each other.

So comparing all of the strengths, weaknesses and when to use and when not to use humans, crowds and AI.

We see that individuals have deep expertise but kind of narrow coverage, and they're good in terms of specialized judgment.

If you need someone specifically who's like the leading expert in something, but they will have blind spots.

Crowds have diversity and robustness, but you need to coordinate them.

Um, it's great for things like open ended discovery, but depending on how your topology for the communication works, it could also lead to groupthink.

Um, for large language models, they are fast, but they might lead you to have some hallucinations.

They could do these routine tasks that are high volume. Um, but they also have their failure mode.

That's the distribution shift. So these are all things to consider because we need to understand where to use all of these different um.

Individual components in a system. Now Successful systems begin with thoughtful task design.

It's so important to recruit diverse contributors to preserve independence and to use the appropriate aggregation algorithms.

A key takeaways here are that collective capability is a system.

System level, um, a function.

And we can't find that in any single contributor.

In our next lecture, we're going to go through some more case studies, real world examples, and delve deeper into computational platforms like Foldit,

Galaxy Zoo, Wikipedia, Community Notes, and to show how all the different principles are implemented in practice.

So I hope you enjoyed today's lecture.

Thanks for taking the time to watch it. Um, this is Doctor Christine Liebert.

Take care.

