[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hi everyone. Welcome back to our lectures on human computation.

Today we're going to be talking about human computation in practice.

So our lecture is going to show how all of the different ideas that we've been talking about so far,

the architectures and the theories of collective intelligence,

how they appear in real systems that you've likely used, and some of the cases we've discussed before.

But for each of these cases, I want you to think critically as we go through them.

I want you to consider, consider the application and identify how were these tasks decomposed?

What was the incentive for those who provided data?

How did they choose which aggregation rule to to pick and finally identify their quality control mechanism?

By the end of this lecture, you will be spotting patterns in these examples, and that'll be very useful for when you need to design a system.

Let's begin. Pretty sure you guys have seen this visual before, but I'm going back to what makes a good human computation system.

Remember, it should be difficult for AI to do in the sense that it might have some ambiguity to it,

some context and nuance, or have a creative component to it.

It is easy for people to do, and then it's repetitive, intuitive, kind of low effort and can be divided into an easy task.

And it should have a scalable workflow so you can have thousands of people contributing simultaneously.

Decomposition and aggregation is what is going to connect this large problem to the ultimate system.

Our case studies follow that are about to follow this.

I'll solve the same design problem, but in different ways. Our first is reCAPTCHA, which from Lewis one on we've talked about before,

he's kind of the one who created a lot of the things that we're going to be talking about today.

Um, it's pretty transformative because it took a very routine security task, And it transformed it into a productive computation.

So every single time a user was trying to prove that they were human on a website,

they were simultaneously also digitizing historical books from archives and translating them into digital versions.

And this started in the early 2000,

so users weren't even aware that what they were doing was part of a much larger project of digitizing these historical archives.

But this is really a great example of incentive alignment, where one human action is actually solving two different computational problems,

which is proving that to human and also digitizing these books.

Then we have Foldit, which is where you're trying to they gamified human computation to two fold proteins,

because this was something that actually was really difficult for computers to do because it required a very large search space.

But when human players started noticing spatial patterns,

they developed these really creative strategies that algorithms initially missed this competition,

where there is a leaderboard and figure out who had done the best or the most.

Um, it really motivated the participants to improve their solution while also generating amazing scientific discoveries.

Third example here we have Galaxy Zoo, which is, um, classifying millions of images of the galaxy.

And while an individual classification or individual who is making a classification could be could have an imperfect classification.

Oh gosh, how many times can I say classification?

But when you aggregate it across many independent volunteers, you actually get really highly reliable scientific data sets.

This is an example of how important, um, the role of both redundancy and majority voting can play in collective intelligence.

Our fourth example here. I don't know if I've touched upon this yet. This is, um, OpenStreetMap. Um, and this is, uh, where humans map out streets.

And you're probably wondering, like, why can't we just use Google Maps?

Well, mapping actually tremendously benefits from having local expertise.

A contributor might know local roads or trails or landmarks.

Um, the commercial mapping companies like Google Maps would have missed. So here what they do is in, um, like disaster response, you'll even see,

like the Red cross using this to figure out like what trails and how to get through to damaged areas.

Um, and people have this incentive of, well, this is part of my community.

I want to, um, be a leader in it and not like lidar on leaderboard, but have that sort of pride.

Uh, but in terms of the architectural principles, I want you to take away that it uses iterative refinement and collaborative editing.

And that's kind of the element of the architecture that allows this product to have such a large impact.

Wikipedia. I thought I'd use a funny screenshot.

We've gone through it a few times, but I'm sure you've all used Wikipedia at some time or another, but thinking of it instead of a product.

But as a system with architecture, it combines collaborative editing, hierarchical oversight, and continuous revision.

Its quality comes from architecture, not just a single contributor.

Community knows, I know I touched on this in the last lecture, so I don't want to go too much into this.

But, um, it's not just trying to get the community that has the most upvotes.

It's the one that's getting the most, in some cases, bipartisan support or having human judgments combined with an algorithmic aggregation

saying we are seeing agreement among people who have very different viewpoints normally.

And if they can agree on this, it might be right.

So that is an example of showing where majority voting would have potentially given you a very polarized or incorrect um, response.

But, uh, by using this emphasis on bringing together different viewpoints, um, that's kind of the bread and butter of community notes.

Then there's Duolingo, Luis Bannon's next project. Uh, and you may have used it.

It's an educational game and app. Um, but in addition to learning a new language,

the people who are using it are also simultaneously generating troves of data sets that are very useful.

These are very useful for how to teach.

So it's data sets, computational data sets on teaching. They have information like user interactions that are then feeding other ML

models to optimize for how difficult or short or interactive should a lesson be?

So it has this feedback loop incorporated within it. Where the human input is actually improving the AI output.

Now for I guess, five of those systems, I have this comparison chart showing, um.

Even though these applications are very different from one another,

they share common computational design patterns that we've been talking about in this module.

Um, it has architecture, and that can largely be a combination of architectures.

It requires an incentive that the human is going to want to pursue it.

Uh, and it needs to be deliberate in how it's choosing to aggregate the results and make them into the output.

We notice patterns are kind of like recurring engineering principles.

Um, in all of these case studies, they are transferable to new applications, which I want you to keep in mind as you do your assignment this week.

Um, but the four principles that every human computation system must address are the task decomposition,

aggregation, quality control, and incentive design. Human computation has evolved alongside AI.

Instead of just disappearing, and modern systems are going to increasingly combine AI and humans into hybrid workflows.

I want you to remember that AI is built on top of human computation.

So for the next slide, they actually still matter.

There are still things that AI is not reliably doing, and this is something we do need to revisit from time to time as it,

um, as different AI models gain different skill sets.

But for now, I can say that AI cannot understand contextual nuance, cannot perform ethical reasoning,

and it cannot have the sort of creativity that was needed in things like the Foldit.

So I believe that future systems will continue to increasingly combine both humans and AI.

I have some takeaways today. It's basically just that architecture is going to determine your outcome.

You need to align your incentives with your task and make sure you have evaluation.

My students, I really want you guys to start thinking about these systems like you are the system designer.

Not that you're like the user of Wikipedia. Um, your architecture and how you set up your system is going to determine how effective your outcome is.

Some of these may seem simple to you, but I think as you delve into your assignment,

you'll realize how many small, um, decisions go into building a system like this.

And in our next lecture, we're actually going to address how to design human computational system.

So it's more of a capstone for this whole module. Thank you so much for listening to this lecture today.

I hope you enjoyed it. Um, this is Doctor Christine Lepard and I hope you have a great day.

