[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Hi, everyone. Welcome back to the final lecture. Uh, for this module, this is Doctor Christine Liebert.

And in this lecture we're going to shift away from analyzing systems and more towards designing them.

We will use a repeatable process that starts with considering the problem.

Then we'll move on to task decomposition architecture, recruitment incentives, aggregation, quality control and ethics.

I want to stress that each of the decision that each of the decisions that's made will constrain the decisions that will follow.

So at the end of this set of slides, there's also, um, a checklist for your design assignment for the module.

All right. So previously we focused on understanding system. But today I want you to shift perspective a little bit.

Think like a system architect who's responsible for designing a brand new computation system, a human computation system.

Successful systems are intentionally engineered. They don't just pop out of thin air.

Um, we're going to introduce a repeatable design framework so that you can apply this same framework to a wide variety of domains and expertise.

Our design process will be beginning with the problem rather than our favorite platform or what our incentive is going to be.

And I'd like to emphasize that not every problem should become a human computation problem.

Good candidates are ones where humans have a cognitive advantage, like judgment or creativity or context.

Um, but also where the work can be divided into many individual contributions.

We then analyze the task, choose the architecture, recruit contributors, design motivation, aggregate results, validate quality,

and evaluate the ethics These stages form a life cycle with feedback that goes much like engineering after deployment.

So, like software engineering, later testing may reveal that an earlier assumption needs to be revisited.

Starting with identifying the problem, I know I went into it a little on that last slide.

Um, but suitable problems, um, is one that's difficult to currently automate, but it's feasible for people to do an at scale.

I would caution against using human computation if the task that you have in mind is already kind of cheap and easy to automate,

or if, um, all the contributors that you want need to recruit have to have full context for the problem.

All right. Now we have a problem. Let's go into task decomposition. I think it's one of the most important engineering decisions.

Um, it reduces the cognitive load and it allows for parallel work to take place.

But when you decompose tasks, I wouldn't say smaller is not always better.

Smaller tasks will increase scalability. They're going to reduce your cognitive load.

Um, and it's going to simplify your quality control.

But decomposition needs to preserve enough context so that contributors can continue to complete the work accurately.

It also has to specify how those units can later be recombined as a coherent result.

So now that we've identified the right problem, figured out how we're going to decompose our tasks, let's consider the architecture.

This was from one of the previous slides kind of summarizing the different options.

And you can actually have a um, combination of architectures that you choose to address your problem.

You need to select the architecture based off the characteristics of the problem, not just from a.

Well, I personally prefer collaborative, so I'm going to apply it to my problem though.

Um, and furthermore, not one single architecture is going to be optimal for all tasks.

Uh, you should use parallel work if you're trying to do independent labels.

Um, if you want to use architectural or hierarchy, I'd recommend using this if it fits with escalation.

Uh, if you want to use collaboration, I would use this on something that's requiring like a creative synthesis for an iterative architecture that

works well for refinement and a competitive one is a good architecture to choose to fit an open search problem.

Again, there's going to be trade offs. No matter what architecture or what combination of architectures that you use.

Um, you're going to be considering scalability, the coordination costs, the output quality and all of that when you're making this choice.

All right. We're getting to our next step, which is recruiting workers.

Some of the systems that you are making might require experts, but some might benefit from just kind of public participation,

required expertise if you are requiring it, needs to match the task complexity.

You don't need a PhD to label a dog a dog. And remember from our lectures that having a diverse group is going to reduce the shared blind spots.

So if you're going with the broad public participation method, that's really great for some tasks.

But if you need like a medical diagnostic or legal advice there, you might need credentialed experts.

Moving on. How are you getting these credentialed experts or broad Citizens to want to work in your system.

Well, your system's incentives are going to influence the quality of your participants.

Um, sometimes you're going to have to pay them if it's something like Mechanical Turk.

Maybe you want to make it a gamified system, like fold it, um, appeal to some sort of volunteer community or altruism.

And the community that you're targeting might respond to different incentives.

So maybe money is great if you're being paid enough.

Um, but maybe going the social purpose route can attract volunteers where you need a specific set of knowledge incentives,

or can also shape the behavior of the people that the workers that you recruit.

So if you have a poorly chosen reward that is going to lead to gamification or kind of superficial checked out effort.

Next up are our aggregation strategies. The output type that you are getting from your workers should be determining the aggregation strategy.

Something like majority voting works great for categorical labels,

when kind of all of the workers are going to kind of come to the same reliable, independent conclusion.

Weighted vote and expectation maximization really help for variation in reliability,

and consensus is more appropriate if you're requiring synthesis instead of just a single label.

Moving on to quality control. This should be designed before data collection even begins.

We have gold tasks to estimate reliability using known answers.

Redundancy. This is going to reduce single person error within your system.

And then we have an expert review that's going to handle kind of low confidence or either low confidence or high stakes cases.

Now our ethical design principles we have privacy.

It requires minimizing exposure to data fairness.

Um this is going to require auditing assignments in the results. Transparency supports informed consent compensation.

You want to be paying fair wages and not exploit labor.

Uh, ethical review is not just a footnote or an appendix that you add after you're finished your design.

This should be something at the forefront as you're coming up with your entire system.

As a case study. We've gone through disaster mapping before, but it shows. Working end to end how this system functions.

We have satellite imagery is divided into these small geographic units.

Then we have our contributors annotating the damage in parallel.

And then if you have more of an uncertain region with more contention, that goes into a verification tier.

Once we have all this information, we can aggregate it to produce a map for first responders to respond quickly to some sort of natural disaster.

This is a hybrid parallel and hierarchical architecture,

and it's going to balance both the urgent throughput with the need to avoid labeling the wrong road or building.

And speaking of incorrectly labeling, I wanted to include some of the common design mistakes that I've seen.

Uh, Task design. Um.

If your task is too ambiguous, there's going to be too much variance in your results.

If your incentives are weak, your workers are going to have minimal effort.

If you miss validation that less more noise and errors flow downstream.

Um, and each problem should be oh, and unnecessarily complex, um,

workflows will consume any sort of benefits of scale that you're hoping to achieve by using collective intelligence.

This is a little bit wordy of a slide,

but I'm using it more as a reference today for all of you when you're working on your design project or assignment.

Um, so please use this kind of as a reference of things to consider when you're going through it.

All right. Now for our assignment. You're going to choose a novel problem and apply the framework that I have set out in that last slide.

I want you to justify every single architectural choice that you make and have a rationale for why you selected it,

and what trade offs you are balancing. Your reflection should explain what could fail and how you would measure that within the system.

After launch. A strong decision makes its assumptions visible and testable.

All right. This is our last lecture for this module. My takeaway for you is that human computation is not just about how can we use crowds.

It's about designing computational systems that effectively combine human cognition, architecture and quality control.

I hope you enjoyed this lecture and the rest of the module. I will see you in office hours this week.

If there's anything you want to discuss or ask. Again, this is Doctor Christine Liebert.

I hope you have a great day.

